---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

<!-- > Add Markdown syntax content to file `_tabs/about.md`{: .filepath } and it will show up on this page. -->
<!-- {: .prompt-tip } -->
<!---->



![Desktop View](/assets/img/me05.jpg){: width="972" height="589" .w-50 .right}

I'm Wil, and my journey in the world has been shaped by my roots in Ecuador and
my life in Catalonia, Spain. I moved to Catalonia with my family when I was
just 10 years old, and it was here that my fascination with the pure sciences
took root, especially in the realms of mathematics and physics.

As a teenager, I eagerly took on the challenge of the "PAU," the university
entrance exam in Spain, and I was thrilled to secure admission to study physics
in the vibrant city of Barcelona. However, life had its own plans for me.
Financial difficulties within my family meant that I couldn't leave my hometown
of Girona, despite my dreams of pursuing physics in Barcelona. But as they say,
when one door closes, another opens. I found a new path by enrolling in
Computer Science at the University of Girona.

During my time pursuing my computer science degree, I discovered a deep passion
for software automation, artificial intelligence, functional programming, and
the intricate workings of Linux environments. Through collaboration with local
companies, I gained practical experience that complemented my academic journey.
It was a busy period, juggling both studies and real-world projects, but I
cherished every moment of it.

Upon completing my degree, I felt a strong calling towards the world of data.
The potential of data-driven solutions to revolutionize the way we live and
work captivated me. This conviction led me to pursue a master's degree in Data
Science at the same university. Armed with this newfound knowledge, I was
determined to be part of shaping the future through data-driven innovations.

Teaching also became a significant part of my journey. I had the privilege of
becoming an associate professor in the Computer Science program at the
University of Girona. There, I shared my expertise in functional and logical
programming with eager students. Beyond the classroom, I delved into the
private sector as a Computer Scientist. My focus revolved around dissecting
data, crafting AI solutions, and automating complex tasks related to computer
systems.

From my early years in Ecuador to my current roles in academia and the private
sector, I've embraced each opportunity to learn and grow. The blend of my
passions for science, technology, and teaching has woven a rich tapestry that
continues to unfold, and I'm excited to see where the future takes me next.
